hello everybody my name is J I'm Alex
and welcome to the e2 task of the week
what are we going to do today today we
are working on IELTS speaking mm-hmm and
in particular we're gonna practice part
one of the test okay and what are we
going to do specifically Alex well I'm
gonna start with a speaking test
overview mm-hmm then we're gonna
practice a full part one mm-hmm we'll
have a look at the criteria and do some
self-evaluation and then at the end
we'll go through some tips to improve
your speaking now correct me if I'm
wrong but today I'll be participating
I'll be doing the exam right okay that
sounds fun so you'll get to hear my
responses which would be good for you
hopefully
okay so Alex can you give me just a bit
of a background and overview of IELTS
speaking sure well basically the exam is
one on one with an examiner takes about
11 to 14 minutes and there are three
sections or three parts to the exam okay
and we're just doing part one today
that's right just partner okay easy
what about scoring well the examiner
actually gives you four scores and there
are four separate criteria so you will
get a score for fluency and coherence
mm-hmm
lexical resource that's your vocabulary
mm-hmm grammatical range and accuracy
and of course pronunciation and your
final score is an average of those four
all right and you're going to do a
separate video on the scoring right yeah
we're gonna talk about this in another
video so just make sure that you
subscribe to keep up with that yes and
also like comment share with your
buddies who are preparing for the test
okay cool that sounds good all right so
let's imagine it's test day and I'm
waiting in the room there with the other
candidates what's going to happen so
basically the examiner will pick you up
from the waiting room and can take you
to the private examining room huh
and in there that will start a voice
recorder yep and a timer
yup read an introduction yeah and then
there will be a very
identity check okay no problem let's
have a look at this so what happens here
so the examiner will introduce
themselves formally like this hello my
name is Alex and then they'll ask you
these questions could you tell me your
full name please right
what shall I call you mm-hmm can you
tell me where you're from
okay can I please see your
identification now this part of the test
is not assessed so you should just give
short factual answers so let me get this
right so those questions we just saw the
examiner always asks those questions
that's right at the start
yep okay can we practice this let's do
it okay I'm ready short factual short
factual answers hello hello Alex it's so
good hello my name is Alex could you
tell me your full name please my full
name is Jay Jay thank you what shall I
call you you can call me Jay but most of
my friends know just short factual
answers right okay what shall I call you
Jay and can you tell me where you're
from
well I grew up in a really Australia can
I please see your identification yes
that's it short factual answers this is
not assists so once you've done that
then we get into I'll speaking part one
okay and what happens here all right so
this part it goes for four to five
minutes and you're gonna talk about
three topics and within each topic
there'll be three or four questions all
of these questions are simple personal
ones so they're pretty easy the test
always begins like this let's talk about
what you do or let's talk about where
you live okay so it's going to be one of
those two questions or start point
starting points it always starts with a
50/50 chance of date so you should
really prepare to talk about what you do
work or study or where you live okay
great so then after that there are two
more topics and the
could be about anything okay some of the
common ones ah sport food family TV
what's favorite TV show do you like
watching TV mobile phones fashion
holidays animals anything okay I have a
question I don't like watching TV that's
fine that's fine yeah I can talk about
that I don't know why I don't like
watching TV I'd love to hear about that
okay sounds good
so let's practice alright so I'm going
to play the role of the candidate and
you will be the examiner you're going to
ask me the questions right that's right
hmm okay I'm ready so now I want to hear
a bit more extension okay so I need to
extend my answers that's right so let's
start let's talk about where you live do
you live in a small town or a big city
big city I didn't extend my answer did I
so you have no idea about my language
abilities that's not the examiner is
trying to rank you really from 0 to 9
okay expert user so if you give a short
answer
what are you theory or are you 9 I can
tell it's hard to tell so what I need to
do is extend my answers try and use some
good vocabulary some different sentence
structures right let's try it again
let's try it give me your best English
alright and I'll speak for about 20
seconds great okay let's talk about
where you live do you live in a small
town or a big city well actually I grew
up in a small town but I've been living
in a reasonably big city for how long I
guess about six or eight years now I'm
not sure if you're familiar with
Melbourne but I've been living here and
as far as I'm concerned it's a beautiful
city I'm nervous and what can people do
for fun in Melbourne well it's actually
a really sporting city we have the Grand
Prix we have the football we have the
cricket we're surrounded by beaches so
if you're sporting person it's very good
for you but apart from sport is also
shopping lots of live music and
fantastic restaurants I'm probably
speaking a bit quickly because I'm
getting nervous I need to be conscious
to slow down
the examiner is ticking off very nice
linking work very nice intonation Oh
past perfect continuous okay
okay good okay I'm doing okay one more
question okay would you like to move to
another place in the future
well recently I visited New York City in
America and that was the most amazing
city I've ever been to
apart from Melbourne so perhaps I'd like
to live there but to be quite honest
with you I'm very happy living in
Melbourne well done I passed cool your
turn I think right that's right all
right so grab your phone because you're
gonna record your answers and listen
back later you should aim for around 20
seconds per answer I'll have a timer on
the screen so you can watch that
obviously in the real test you won't
have that advantage mm-hmm are you ready
let's talk about where you live do you
live in a small town or a big city
you
what can people do for fun
would you like to move to another place
in future
you
let's move on to talk about clothes what
kind of clothes do you like wearing
you
how are empty guys shopping for clothes
do you prefer to shop for clothes alone
or with someone else
you
has your style of clothing changed in
recent years
you
now let's talk about staying healthy is
it important for you to be healthy
you
are you healthier now than when you were
a child
you
what could you do to have a healthier
lifestyle
you
whoa Alex there are a lot of questions
there right yeah but on test day it
actually goes pretty quickly it does
actually yeah it does time really flies
on test day you'll find that so how do
you think you went answering those
questions how is your vocabulary how is
your grammar how is your pronunciation
and how is your fluency maybe you want
to give yourself a little score and pop
it into the comments below
if you found that difficult or if you
think you need additional help you may
want to check out WWE two language comm
you've got an amazing online IELTS
preparation course and what you can do
as part of that course is actually book
one on one speaking tutorials with
expert eye on teachers including some of
them who are exiled examiners so they
know exactly what happens and what you
need to do cool what else can people do
well today since you don't have a
teacher with you you can listen back to
your recording and you can ask yourself
these questions here's a checklist that
you can go through so listen to your
recording even though everybody hates
the sound of their own voice it really
is valuable ask yourself this did I
speak fluently without noticeable effort
did I develop my topics coherently
that's really extension did you extend
your answers did you use a range of
connectives discourse markers on the one
hand on the other hand apart from that
that's it hmm vocab did you use a wide
range of vocab flexibly what was the
best word that you use popped up in the
comments box perhaps did you use some
less common
idiomatic language maybe phrasal verbs
okay so let me get this right
idiomatic language should I talk about
raining cats and dogs kicking the bucket
and turning over a leaf if you can do it
really really well yes if it fits if it
fits
yeah don't force your idioms in really
phrasal verbs are another way to get
idiomatic speech in it so take okay so
my idiomatic it means natural sound if
that's right alright that's good to
clear up did you paraphrase effectively
maybe you forgot a word doesn't matter
if you can explain around that
word the examiner will reward that so in
terms of grammar when you're listening
back have you used a wide range of
structures have you got all the tenses
in there relative clauses passives maybe
hmm are your sentences frequently error
free this is something you're one-on-one
that tutorial will be really helpful for
it's hard sometimes to pick up your own
errors pronunciation have you used a
wide range of features connected speech
emphasis stress chunking intonation and
are you speaking clearly with all the
correct sounds of English
forty-four sounds right that's right
cool all right excellent
cool what about tips have any last
minute tips or just any tips for the
guys at home yeah let's go through five
really simple tips to lift your IELTS
speaking score okay all right number one
it's a big one practice practice
practice as much as you can try to
completely immerse in English in the
lead up to your test number two record
yourself listen back try to get over
that phobia of your own voice number
three extend extend extend so talk about
the past and the present talk about the
present in the future compare other
people to yourself look for ways to make
your answers longer come and join our
live classes at YouTube language comm we
do a full speaking test every week and
of course book your one-on-one tutorial
to get that really important personal
feedback cool I've got a couple of tips
the first tip is on test day bring some
something with you like a magazine or a
book because there's a lot of waiting
around and I see people sort of sitting
there really bored and they're not
reading English and if you're reading
while you're waiting or listening to a
podcast it's really activating that part
of your brain and getting you warmed up
yeah I think that's a really big one so
bring something with you and test it
it's also just very boring waiting
around so it's nice to kill the time
doing that my second tip and this is an
important one is you should check out ET
language calm as I said we run
one-on-one tutorials for speaking or
writing for example we've also got a
great online platform and course as Alex
mentioned we've got the live group
classes and we also give speaking and
writing
feedbacks that just check out the
website for that which is e2 language
comm well I hope that was useful it was
yeah well at least for me it was you did
a really great job thank you and I'm
sure you do this well cool thanks very
much guys see you next time see you soon
[Music]